= Local Media Player Notes =
* Language: Java
* Steps:
	1. Create local repository on PC
			* AJMusicPlayer
	2. Figure out algorithm for the tasks below before figuring out UI. Determining how the data
	and processes work together may inform how they connect in JFX.	
	3.TASKS
		- From user's specified directory, identify all playable files (wav, mp3, flac).
			- Eventually multiple directories
			- Create viewport for users music files
			- On music item click, create timeline slider with media buttons
					- Play/Pause button
					- Repeat button
					- Previous / Next Song
					- Volume
					- Shuffle?
			- Playlist functionality and viewport
			- Cool visualizer / layout mode
					-Normal mode / Cool mode (stylized layout)
			- Draw sketch layout for buttons
			- Use JavaFX to create sketch layout

== Tasks ==
- Get the user's music directory
	- Scan user's music directory for playable music files. That is files that end in the following extensions: wav, mp3, flac
		 - For every playable file
				-	Create a Music object based off the contents of that file / its metadata
						-	Title
						- Music Duration
						- File Path
				- Add Music object to array of other music objects
				- FOR NOW: Print all of the Music objects in the array.



== Algorithms ==
- Music File Retrieval
	-The user needs to specify a directory. Offer input box. Ex: "Please enter a user directory"
	-Open the folder in Java
	-For each file in the directory, if file extension ends with .wav, .mp3, or .flac, add the file name to an array.
	-Print out each file found in the array.
	-If array is empty, print no music files found. 
	
	
== Entries 11/11/2025 ==
Alright a little more complicated than we thought. I'm trying to "stretch my capacity" and do things a little differently this time around by
trying to use AI as little as possible. I'm reading documentation only then testing and adjusting based on what screws up. Today I figured out how to validate whether or not 
a given string is a valid directory. I'm immediately getting a better hands-on understanding of how OOP works. I needed to convert the string into a Path, so that 
I could use that Path in the Files method that returns a boolean if the Path is a directory. Noticed I was copy and pasting a lot so I made methods for those. 
Its only Day 1 of actually coding it out and I already just want to keep going. I didn't consider the case where someone inputs a string with spaces in between the 
characters, so I'm going to add a check for that later. Of course, when I get to the UI part, then this feature I'm implementing will be a popup box where they just
click and choose a directory as in normal programs. I'm just getting the basic functionality down, seeing what data I'll need and how it needs to be processed, and THEN, when
everything is solid, I'll start the UI design. It's getting late so I have to stop here. 
